*** English translation is available in the latter of this file ***

	「大語彙連続音声認識エンジン Julius」
			利用許諾書

  Copyright (c)   1991-2016 京都大学 河原研究室
  Copyright (c)   1997-2000 情報処理振興事業協会(IPA)
  Copyright (c)   2000-2005 奈良先端科学技術大学院大学 鹿野研究室
  Copyright (c)   2005-2016 名古屋工業大学 Julius開発チーム

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

「大語彙連続音声認識エンジン Julius」（Julianを含む）は、京都大学 河原
研究室、奈良先端科学技術大学院大学 鹿野研究室、及び名古屋工業大学 
Julius開発チームで開発されています。1997年度から3年間、情報処理振興事
業協会(IPA)が実施した「独創的情報技術育成事業」の援助を受けました。

京都大学 河原研究室、IPA、奈良先端科学技術大学院大学 鹿野研究室、及び
名古屋工業大学 Julius開発チーム（以下あわせて「著作権者」と言う）は、
著作者であり著作権を留保していますが、本利用条件の全てを受諾し遵守する
限り、ソースコードを含む本プログラム及びドキュメンテーション（以下あわ
せて「本ソフトウェア」と言う）を無償であなたに提供します。あなたが本ソ
フトウェアを利用したときは、本利用条件の全てを受諾したものと看做されま
す。

			【利用条件】

1. あなたは、本利用条件の全てを受諾し遵守する限り、本ソフトウェアの全
部又は一部について使用、複製、翻案、変更、組込み、結合することおよびそ
れらの複製物、翻案物、変更物等を配布、送信することができます。ただし、
あなたを含め本ソフトウェアの利用者は、本ソフトウェアの全部又はその一部
を変更してその複製物を配布、送信などして第三者に提供するときは第2項の
表示記載に加え本ソフトウェアを変更した旨、変更者及びその変更日を明確に
表示するものとします。

2. あなたは、使用、複製、翻案、変更、組込み、結合その他本ソフトウェア
の利用態様の如何にかかわらず、その複製物、翻案物、変更物等の全部又は一
部を第三者に提供するときは、本ソフトウェアに下記の著作権表示及び公開の
趣旨を含む本利用条件の全て（この文書ファイル）をいささかも変更すること
なくそのまま表示し添付しなければなりません。

			記
  Copyright (c) 1991-2016 京都大学 河原研究室
  Copyright (c) 1997-2000 情報処理振興事業協会(IPA)
  Copyright (c) 2000-2005 奈良先端科学技術大学院大学 鹿野研究室
  Copyright (c) 2005-2016 名古屋工業大学 Julius開発チーム

3. 本ソフトウェアを利用して得られた知見に関して発表を行なう際には、
「大語彙連続音声認識エンジン Julius」を利用したことを明記して下さい。

4. 本ソフトウェアは、研究開発の試作物としてあるがままの状態で無償公開
提供するものであり、本ソフトウェアに関し、明示、黙示を問わず、いかなる
国における利用であるかを問わず、また法令により生じるものであるか否かを
問わず、一切の保証を行いません。ここで言う保証には、本ソフトウェアの品
質、性能、商品性、特定目的適合性、欠陥のないことおよび他の第三者の有す
る著作権、特許権、商標権等の無体財産権や営業秘密その他の権利利益を侵害
しないことの保証を含みますが、それに限定されるものではありません。あな
たを含め本ソフトウェアの利用者は、本ソフトウェアが無保証であることを承
諾し、本ソフトウェアが無保証であることのリスクを利用者自身で負うものと
します。裁判所の判決によりあなたに課せられた義務によってあなたが本利用
条件に従うことが不可能になったときは、本ソフトウェアを利用してはなりま
せん。本ソフトウェアの利用又は利用できないことに関してあなた及び第三者
に生じる通常損害、特別損害、直接的、間接的、付随的、派生的な損害（逸失
利益を含む）一切につき、それが契約、不法行為責任、瑕疵担保責任、製造物
責任等いかなる国のいかなる法律原因によるかを問わず、賠償しません。

5. 本ソフトウェアの利用に関しては、日本国の法律を準拠法とし、京都地方
裁判所を第一審の専属管轄裁判所とします。

6. 本ソフトウェアのメンテナンスやサポート、上記条件以外の利用等に関し
ては、名古屋工業大学 Julius開発チーム、または京都大学 河原研究室に照会
下さい。



*** This is English translation of the Japanese original for reference ***


     Large Vocabulary Continuous Speech Recognition Engine Julius


 Copyright (c) 1991-2016 Kawahara Lab., Kyoto University
 Copyright (c) 1997-2000 Information-technology Promotion Agency, Japan
 Copyright (c) 2000-2005 Shikano Lab., Nara Institute of Science and Technology
 Copyright (c) 2005-2016 Julius project team, Nagoya Institute of Technology

"Large Vocabulary Continuous Speech Recognition Engine Julius",
including Julian, is being developed at Kawahara Lab., Kyoto
University, Shikano Lab., Nara Institute of Science and Technology,
and Julius project team, Nagoya Institute of Technology (collectively
referred to herein as the "Licensers").  Julius was funded by the
Advanced Information Technology Program Project of
Information-technology Promotion Agency (IPA), Japan for three years
since 1997.

The Licensers reserve the copyright thereto.  However, as long as you
accept and remain in strict compliance with the terms and conditions
of the license set forth herein, you are hereby granted a royalty-free
license to use "Large Vocabulary Continuous Speech Recognition Engine
Julius" including the source code thereof and the documentation
thereto (collectively referred to herein as the "Software").  Use by
you of the Software shall constitute acceptance by you of all terms
and conditions of the license set forth herein.

	      TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF LICENSE

1. So long as you accept and strictly comply with the terms and
conditions of the license set forth herein, the Licensers will not
enforce the copyright or moral rights in respect of the Software, in
connection with the use, copying, duplication, adaptation,
modification, preparation of a derivative work, aggregation with
another program, or insertion into another program of the Software or
the distribution or transmission of the Software.  However, in the
event you or any other user of the Software revises all or any portion
of the Software, and such revision is distributed, then, in addition
to the notice required to be affixed pursuant to paragraph 2 below, a
notice shall be affixed indicating that the Software has been revised,
and indicating the date of such revision and the name of the person or
entity that made the revision.

2. In the event you provide to any third party all or any portion of
the Software, whether for copying, duplication, adaptation,
modification, preparation of a derivative work, aggregation with
another program, insertion into another program, or other use, you
shall affix the following copyright notice and all terms and
conditions of this license (both the Japanese original and English
translation) as set forth herein, without any revision or change
whatsoever.

                      Form of copyright notice:

 Copyright (c) 1991-2016 Kawahara Lab., Kyoto University
 Copyright (c) 1997-2000 Information-technology Promotion Agency, Japan
 Copyright (c) 2000-2005 Shikano Lab., Nara Institute of Science and Technology
 Copyright (c) 2005-2016 Julius project team, Nagoya Institute of Technology

3. When you publish or present any results by using the Software, you
must explicitly mention your use of "Large Vocabulary Continuous
Speech Recognition Engine Julius".

4. The Licensers are licensing the Software, which is the trial
product of research and project, on an "as is" and royalty-free basis,
and makes no warranty or guaranty whatsoever with respect to the
Software, whether express or implied, irrespective of the nation where
used, and whether or not arising out of statute or otherwise,
including but not limited to any warranty or guaranty with respect to
quality, performance, merchantability, fitness for a particular
purpose, absence of defects, or absence of infringement of copyright,
patent rights, trademark rights or other intellectual property rights,
trade secrets or proprietary rights of any third party.  You and every
other user of the Software hereby acknowledge that the Software is
licensed without any warranty or guaranty, and assume all risks
arising out of the absence of any warranty or guaranty.  In the event
that obligations imposed upon you by judgment of a court would make it
impossible for you to comply with the conditions of this license, you
may not use the Software.

The Licensers shall not have any liability to you or to any third
party for damages or liabilities of any nature whatsoever arising out
of your use of or inability to use the Software, whether of an
ordinary, special, direct, indirect, consequential or incidental
nature (including without limitation lost profits) or otherwise, and
whether arising out of contract, negligence, tortuous conduct, product
liability or any other legal theory or reason whatsoever of any nation
or jurisdiction.

5. This license of use of the Software shall be governed by the laws
of Japan, and the Kyoto District Court shall have exclusive primary
jurisdiction with respect to all disputes arising with respect
thereto.

6. Inquiries for support or maintenance of the Software, or inquiries
concerning this license of use besides the conditions above, may be
sent to Julius project team, Nagoya Institute of Technology, or
Kawahara Lab., Kyoto University.
